{\rtf1\ansi
\fs28 Phils Design Tools - User Guide\par
\par
\fs22 Purpose\par
This guide explains how to use the Phils Design Tools add-in in Fusion 360 to go from wireframe to fabrication-ready steel members.\par
\par
\fs22 Prerequisites\par
- Fusion 360 installed.\par
- Add-in installed from Addin\\PhilsDesignTools and enabled.\par
- Wireframe DXF exported from Rhino, with sectors and member types split by layer names.\par
\par
\fs22 Workflow Overview\par
1. Locate steel wireframe model (DXF).\par
2. Import wireframe into Fusion 360, organized by sector components.\par
3. Generate RHS/SHS columns and arms sector by sector.\par
4. Trim member ends where brackets will sit (thickness + 3 mm clearance).\par
5. Place brackets from the Fusion library.\par
6. Project bracket outlines to create EA sketch lines.\par
7. Generate EA members for bracket connections and rotate as needed.\par
8. Create cross-bracing sketches (flat to faces).\par
9. Generate EA cross-bracing and orient to face.\par
10. Cut bolt holes.\par
11. Rename all components to the naming convention.\par
12. Repeat for remaining sectors.\par
13. Full design check (alignment, holes, naming).\par
14. Export IGES for RHS/SHS components.\par
15. Export EA hole list for manufacturing.\par
\par
\fs22 Using the Tools\par
\fs20 EA From Lines\par
- Select sketch lines for EA members.\par
- Set flange length, thickness, hole size, hole gauge, and extra end.\par
- Set orientation to 0, 90, 180, or 270 degrees.\par
\par
\fs20 SHS From Lines\par
- Select sketch lines for SHS members.\par
- Set size, wall thickness, and extra end.\par
- Set orientation to 0, 90, 180, or 270 degrees.\par
\par
\fs20 RHS From Lines\par
- Select sketch lines for RHS members.\par
- Set width, depth, wall thickness, and extra end.\par
- Set orientation to 0, 90, 180, or 270 degrees.\par
\par
\fs20 Stub Arms To Wall\par
- Select a column face for manual control, or select a column body/occurrence for auto face selection.\par
- Select wall faces, bodies, or occurrences.\par
- Set connection points, bottom/top offsets, and wall clearance (default 200 mm).\par
- Lines are created only when the hit lands on a selected wall face boundary.\par
- Stub arm sketches are stored under the "stub arm lines" component; guide lines and wall sketches are not kept.\par
\par
\fs20 Rotate Steel Member\par
- Select one or more member occurrences.\par
- Choose +90 or -90 rotation.\par
- EA rotates about the hole axis; SHS/RHS rotates about its length axis.\par
\par
\fs20 EA Batch Rename\par
- Select member occurrences to rename.\par
- Enter prefix (type + index), size suffix, and starting index.\par
- The tool finds the longest edge as the length.\par
\par
\fs22 Naming Convention\par
Format: SectorLetter-TypeWithIndex-Size-Lengthmm\par
Examples:\par
- P-C1-100x50x3-2400mm\par
- I-CA2-100x50x3-1800mm\par
- S-EAH5-50x50x3-600mm\par
\par
\fs22 Notes and Tips\par
- Work sector by sector to keep naming consistent.\par
- Use rotation presets to align members quickly.\par
- For trim and bracket placement, confirm the correct end before cutting.\par
\par
\fs22 Troubleshooting and Logs\par
- Logs are written to Addin\\PhilsDesignTools\\PhilsDesignTools.log.\par
- If a command fails, check the log for a stack trace.\par
}
